# SI-GuidedProject-336697-1665726638
Coal Classification Using IBM Watson

Coals occur worldwide and vary significantly in their physical and chemical characteristics for a variety of reasons, both with respect to the organic coal substance and to associated mineral matter that is always present to a varying extent. Coals are an important source of energy, as well as being essential for the production of metallurgical cokes and are also widely used as feedstocks for other industrial process such as the production of gaseous fuels and synthesis gas. However, coals are complex, heterogeneous solids that vary widely in their properties and hence in their suitability for particular applications. Irrespective of the way coal is looked upon, there has always been a need to classify it, particularly by coal geologists, technologists, and scientists. Such a need becomes evident when one realizes that the principle of systematization has always been applied to coals for the purpose of establishing their classification. The purpose of any classification is to group together things that are similar and to distinguish between those that are not. The nature of a classification system will depend upon the particular application for which the system is to be employed. Classifications for coal may be subdivided into those that are scientific/genetic and those that are technical or commercial, for immediate practical or applied use.

In this project, we will be building a deep learning model that can classify four types of Coal. The most common classification is based on rank, referring to the degree of coalification that has occurred. The rank of a coal is determined primarily by the depth of burial and temperature to which the coal was subjected over time. A web application is integrated with the model, from where the user can upload a coal image like Anthracites, Bituminous, Lignite and Peat, and see the analyzed results on User Inter face.

video demonstration link-https://drive.google.com/file/d/1NUdiOWV7XvwOdHf8H-qsbRKJioSPsEpL/view?usp=share_link
